Title: SuNeRFs – The Sun as a (fully-resolved) star

Speaker: Benoit Tremblay

Abstract:
EUV-observing instruments are limited in their numbers and are mainly constrained to viewing the Sun from its equator (i.e., the ecliptic). For example, the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO; 2010-present) provides images of the Sun in EUV from the perspective of the Earth-Sun line. Two additional viewpoints are provided by the STEREO twin satellites pulling Ahead (STEREO-A; 2006-present) and falling Behind (STEREO-B; 2006-2014) of Earth’s orbit. No satellites observe the solar poles directly. However, a complete image of the 3D Sun is required fully understand the dynamics of the Sun (from eruptive events to the resultant space weather in the solar system), to forecast EUV radiation to protect our assets in space, to relate the Sun to other stars in the universe, and to generalize our knowledge of the Sun-Earth system to other host stars.
 
To maximize the science return of multiple viewpoints, we propose a novel approach that unifies and smoothly integrates data from multiple perspectives into a consistent 3D representation of the solar corona. We leverage Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) which are neural networks that achieve state-of-the-art 3D scene representation and generate novel views from a limited number of input images. We adapted a Sun NeRF (SuNeRF) to generate a physically-consistent representation of the 3D Sun, with the inclusion of radiative transfer and geometric ray sampling that matches the physical reality of optically thin plasma in the solar atmosphere. We trained a SuNeRF model using a magnetohydrodynamic 3D simulation of the EUV corona, with the training set limited to viewpoints that were captured from the ecliptic to reflect the limitations of current space-based observations. Using the remaining (non-ecliptic) viewpoints as ground truth, we validated the SuNeRF’s ability to provide new state-of-the-art results in 3D representations of the full Sun, including the poles, despite learning only from ecliptic viewpoints.
 
SuNeRFs leverage existing multi-viewpoint observations and act as virtual instruments that can fly out of the ecliptic and that can be placed anywhere in the solar system at no additional cost. Our method is also an example of how novel deep learning techniques can be used to significantly enhance observational capabilities by the creation of virtual instruments
 
